The next thing I want to talk about is
some of the more peculiar aspects of
the language.
As we work through examples,
there are few obvious differences between
JavaScript that I want to cover off
the bat so as we run into them,
we're a little more prepared.
The first we'll notice is typing, and
some of the big words are string,
integer, float.
And so when you're defining variables,
whatever variable that type is or whatever
type that variable is, it needs to stay
that way for the rest of the program.
So you can't define a number and
then be like, just kidding,
I want that to be a string down the road,
once it's a number It is always
a number for the life of the program.
In JavaScript because it's dynamically
typed that's not the case,
you can redefine a variable called name to
be set of numbers if that's how you feel
like living that day.
You will find that there are a lot of
similarities to how Typescript looks and
feels, so
if you're working in Typescript at all,
there are some familiar
patterns between the two.
In terms of structures in other languages,
if you're trying to turn JavaScript into
more of an object oriented language, a lot
of times you'll think of ES6 classes or
React components that encompass both
behavior, functionality, properties,
types, and stuff like that.
And in Go, those structures we're
gonna be talking about are structs,
pointers, methods and interfaces.
Both of which on both sides have
to do with encompassing and
encapsulating some of the code
around what an object or
what something is trying to do,
and how it's described.
Error handling is a particularly
interesting part of the Go language,
in JavaScript it's built in, exceptions
are gonna be thrown as you're writing your
code, and you don't have to do a lot for
those to appear it'll be pretty obvious.
In the go language,
you have to be extremely explicit, so
errors are treated like values
rather than exceptions, and so for
you to actually manage that you
need to capture that error and
then decide what you wanna do with
it in a very intentional way.
Another way to think about writing Go is
starting with all of the sad paths, so
if you're writing a function, you handle
all of the sad paths with your error
handling as you go through the function.
And then that last line of code should be,
if everything goes great,
you've already handled all
the things that could go wrong,
what do you want the function
to actually accomplish?
But it's a little bit of a different way
to structure, what you expect to happen.
In terms of multitasking, JavaScript is
single threaded, and it is notoriously
difficult for asynchronous behaviors,
you're talking like callbacks, promises
async await, a variety of approaches
to try to make this less painful.
And in Go we have a couple of tools
around Go routines, sync packaging,
multi threaded, pneus with concurrency
that's actually really seamless and
is a really powerful part of the language.
And then lastly,
we've got some opinionated-ness,
the Go language does have strong
opinions around syntax and style as
you're writing your code, there are built
in linters that are one size fits all.
In JavaScript we do have a little bit more
control over which linter do we want?
How strong do you want it to be?
What are the ESLint rules
you wanna turn off?
And that's not the case with Go,
it's kinda just like everyone does it the
same way, which does make it super great.
Because when you're looking at a new
code base that you didn't write,
it looks like your Go code, which can be
a really positive aspect of the language.